**Lab 8 -** Using Copilot for Security standalone portal to get threat
intelligence 

**Introduction**

Copilot for Security delivers information about threat actors,
indicators of compromise (IOCs), tools, and vulnerabilities, as well as
contextual threat intelligence from Microsoft Defender Threat
Intelligence (Defender TI). You can use the prompts and promptbooks to
investigate incidents, enrich your hunting flows with threat
intelligence information, or gain more knowledge about your
organization. You can use many prompts to get information from Defender
TI.

**Objectives**

- To explore and access threat-related articles utilizing Microsoft
  Copilot for Security Standalone.

- To obtain information about the Silk Typhoon threat actor and
  associated indicators of compromise (IOCs).

- To obtain information about Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures
  (CVEs).

- To provide feedback on the effectiveness and accuracy of the Defender
  Threat Intelligence integration with Copilot for Security.

**Task 1: Exploring and accessing threat-related articles**

1.  In Microsoft Copilot for Security Standalone, navigate and click on
    Source icon beside he prompt bar as shown in the below image.

 ![](./media/image1.png)

2.  Ensure that the **Microsoft Defender Threat Intelligence** plugin is
    turned on.

 ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
 generated](./media/image2.png)

3.  Enter the following prompt to obtain the latest threat related
    articles.

 +++**Show me the latest threat articles**+++

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image3.png)

4.  Carefully review the output. You can click on the Reference article
    and read the full analysis report.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image4.png)

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image5.png)

5.  Then, enter the following prompt:

 +++**Get threat articles related to ransomware in the last six
 months**+++

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image6.png)

6.  Review the latest threat intelligence articles related to ransomware
    over the past six months.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image7.png)

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image8.png)

**Task 2: Threat actor mapping and infrastructure**

Get information on threat actors and the tactics, techniques, and
procedures (TTPs), sponsored states, industries, and IOCs associated
with them.

1.  Enter the following prompt, +++**Tell me more about Silk
    Typhoon**+++

 ![](./media/image9.png)

2.  Carefully review the information related to Silk Typhoon.

 ![](./media/image10.png)

 ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
 generated](./media/image11.png)

 ![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
 generated](./media/image12.png)

3. Then, enter the following prompt, +++**Share the IOCs associated
with Silk Typhoon**+++

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image13.png)

4.  Review the IOCs associated with Silk Typhoon.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image14.png)

**Task 3: Vulnerability data by CVE**

Get contextual information and threat intelligence on Common
Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVEs).

1.  Enter the following prompt, +++**Show me the latest CVEs**+++

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image15.png)

2.  Review all the latest CVEs.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image16.png)

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image17.png)

**Task 4: Provide feedback**

Your feedback on the Defender TI integration with Copilot for Security
helps with development.

1.  To provide feedback, in Copilot, select **How's this response?** At
    the bottom of each completed prompt.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image18.png)

2.  Here, we are selecting **Looks right**. You can select the response
    based on your experience related to the output provided by Copilot
    for Security.

- **Looks right** - Select this button if the results are accurate,
  based on your assessment.

- **Needs improvement** - Select this button if any detail in the
  results is incorrect or incomplete, based on your assessment.

- **Inappropriate** - Select this button if the results contain
  questionable, ambiguous, or potentially harmful information.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image19.png)

3.  In **Send feedback to Microsoft** dialog box, select **Accurate**.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image20.png)

4.  Click on the **Send** button.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image21.png)

5.  You can see your feedback under the generated output of Copilot for
    Security.

![A screenshot of a computer Description automatically
generated](./media/image22.png)

**Summary**

In this lab, you’ve utilized Microsoft Copilot for Security Standalone
to explore and access threat-related articles, enabling you to stay
updated on the latest cybersecurity trends and emerging threats. Then,
you’ve obtained valuable insights into the Silk Typhoon threat actor
including the associated indicators of compromise (IOCs), aiding in
understanding the threat landscape and potential risks. You’ve accessed
information about Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVEs). Finally,
the lab emphasized the importance of providing feedback on the
effectiveness and accuracy of the Defender Threat Intelligence
integration with Copilot for Security, contributing to the continuous
improvement of cybersecurity tools and solutions. Through these tasks,
you’ve gained practical experience in leveraging threat intelligence to
bolster the cybersecurity defenses and actively contributed to the
refinement of security practices.
